Add TiDB Cloud Terraform Doc (#10563)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/terraform/tidbcloud-provider.md

---
title: Get TiDB Cloud Provider
summary: Learn how to get TiDB Cloud provider
---

> # Get TiDB Cloud Provider

Author: yes i will check it in the whole doc

> **Note:**
>
> Make sure meet the requirements in [overview](/tidb-cloud/terraform/terraform-overview.md)

## Set up terraform

> TiDB Cloud provider has released to terraform registry. All you need to do is install terraform (>=1.0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud provider has been released to terraform registry. All you need to do is install terraform (>=1.0).
```

> ## Set up terraform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up Terraform
```

Reviewer: reason: If users need to complete all the steps in this section by sequence, we can use Step 1, Step 2, Step 3 to present the section titles to make them more clear.

> ## Step 1. Set up terraform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1. Install terraform
```

TiDB Cloud Terraform provider has been released to terraform registry. All you need to do is install terraform (>=1.0).

> For Mac users, you can install terraform with Homebrew.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Mac users, you can install Terraform with Homebrew.
```

> 1. install the HashiCorp tap, a repository of all our Homebrew packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the HashiCorp tap, a repository of all the required Homebrew packages.
```

    ```shell
    brew tap hashicorp/tap
    ```

> 2. install Terraform with hashicorp/tap/terraform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Install Terraform with hashicorp/tap/terraform.
```

brew install hashicorp/tap/terraform
```

> See [terraform doc](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli?in=terraform/aws-get-started) for other installation methods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [terraform doc](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli) for other installation methods.
```

Author: done

> 2. Install Terraform with hashicorp/tap/terraform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Install Terraform with `hashicorp/tap/terraform`.
```

> See [terraform doc](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli) for other installation methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For other operating systems, see [Terraform documentation](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli) for instructions.
```

> ## Create an API key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2. Create an API key
```

The TiDB Cloud API uses HTTP Digest Authentication. It protects your private key from being sent over the network.

Currently, TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider does not support managing API keys. So you need to create an API key in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters).

For detailed steps, see [TiDB Cloud API documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta#section/Authentication/API-Key-Management).

## Step 3. Download TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider

1. Create a main.tf file:

   ```
   terraform {
     required_providers {
       tidbcloud = {
         source = "tidbcloud/tidbcloud"
         version = "~> 0.0.1"
       }
     }
     required_version = ">= 1.0.0"
   }
   ```

>    - The `source` attribute defines the provider which will be downloaded from [Terraform Registry](https://registry.terraform.io/) by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The `source` attribute specifies the target Terraform provider to be downloaded from [Terraform Registry](https://registry.terraform.io/).
```

   - The `version` attribute is optional, which specifies the version of the provider. If it is not specified, the latest provider version is used by default.
   - The `required_version` is optional, which specifies the version of Terraform. If  it is not specified, the latest Terraform version is used by default.

> 2. To get the TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider, run the `terraform init` command. It will download the provider from the Terraform registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the `terraform init` command to download TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider from Terraform Registry.
```

```
$ terraform init

Initializing the backend...

Initializing provider plugins...
- Reusing previous version of tidbcloud/tidbcloud from the dependency lock file
- Using previously-installed tidbcloud/tidbcloud v0.0.1

Terraform has been successfully initialized!

You may now begin working with Terraform. Try running "terraform plan" to see
any changes that are required for your infrastructure. All Terraform commands
should now work.

If you ever set or change modules or backend configuration for Terraform,
rerun this command to reinitialize your working directory. If you forget, other
commands will detect it and remind you to do so if necessary.
```

> ## Configure the provider with API Key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4. Configure TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider with the API Key
```

```
terraform {
  required_providers {
    tidbcloud = {
      source = "tidbcloud/tidbcloud"
      version = "~> 0.0.1"
    }
  }
  required_version = ">= 1.0.0"
}

provider "tidbcloud" {
  username = "fake_username"
  password = "fake_password"
}
```

> username and password are the API key's public key and private key, you can also pass them with the environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where `username` and `password` are the API key's public key and private key. You can also pass them with the environment variables:
```

> You can configure the provider as follows:

Reviewer: 这里是需要新建一个文件然后在文件里添加如下配置吗，还是在某个已有的文件里添加如下配置呢？可以在文档里说明下吗？

`username` and `password` are the API key's public key and private key. You can also pass them with the environment variables:

```
export TIDBCLOUD_USERNAME = ${public_key}
export TIDBCLOUD_PASSWORD = ${private_key}
```

> Now, you can use the TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider. You can get started by managing the cluster with [cluster resource](/tidb-cloud/terraform/cluster-resource.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you can use the TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider. You can get started by managing a cluster with [cluster resource](/tidb-cloud/terraform/cluster-resource.md).
```
